Codebook for Getting and Cleaning Data Project:

Data Set Information:

The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 
The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain.

For a more complete description of the data, see: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones
Moreover, the data was downloaded from: https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip


Variable name information for my data:

Leading t or f to describe if datapoint is a frequency or time measurement.
Body is related to the body movement, Gravity refers to the acceleration of gravity.
Accel is the accelerometer measurement, Gyro is a gyroscopic measurement.
Jerk refers to a sudden movement. Mag refers to the magnitude of movement.
Mean and Std refer to the type of measurement that was made.


General information on my data:

Each element represents the mean of all data inputs, for subject and testtype by groups. There are 180 observations; 6 for each of the 30
subjects. Each TestType number refers to a different activity, and the subject number is consistent within each testee.
